# Personal Statements with Python

## The Personal Statement Struggle

You can seperate people into two categories. Those that experienced the difficulties of applying to college, and those that haven't. The application process is a stressful experience, it feels like all decisions you make cause everlasting affects and thats because they do. These applications have the chance to deside your future.

Personally I had a seprate struggle, and that was my personal statement. I find writing about myself to be incredibly difficult as it requires you to be more descriptive to get across the thoughts and emothions properly. This struggle resulted in me procrastinating until I was told that it was due the following day. This immediately caught me off gaurd.

I realized the severity of the situation and rushed home to quickly not only start but finish my personal statement. having been incredibly limited on time I quickly chose a topic on my passions and wrote.

As stated before I found it difficult to crite aboout myself so freely. After over an hour i was still struggling to actually geta proper basis to wrtrte off of. Time was still ticking and I was to run out of it soon. This prompted me to take a quick break. I had known my limit and I was soon to get burnt out. If that happened it would've been worse overall.

After a nescessary break I returned back to work. I decided to prevent what happened before I would make a mental draft of what points I wanted to get across and the story I was hoping to tell.

This was a massive help as it gave me a good base to work off of. Once I properly got started it was easy to make progress on the statment. I quickly completed the introduction and was soon onto the remaining paragraphs. The Introduction is below.

"Passion is a term used to describe love or care for something significant. Everyone has passion towards something whether it be their partner, a hobby, an item, or even a job; passion is felt all around us. Since I was young, my passion has been computers, and they’ve led me to where I am today. Growing up, computers were always interesting to me because they could display all different applications and websites on such a small device. This interest only grew with time as I got older and started looking more into how applications and websites were made. Once I reached my junior year of high school I was finally able to properly explore the creation process of software through a program offered to my school."

I felt accomplished after completing my introduction, but i knew this was just the start. Luckily the creative juices were flowing and I was immediately working on my main content filled paragraph. It was completed much quicker than the introduction. It went as follows.

"Despite loving computers growing up, there was one particular time that solidified programming as the career and field I wanted to be in. This occurred last year. There was a project that I needed to work on called our showcase, and it was one of the most important projects of the year. The project consisted of groups creating a business idea and making all necessary web pages for the business from scratch. Immediately I was excited as this project seemed incredibly interesting and enjoyable to me. This would be a difficult project as it required a whole website to be made with only a month to complete it. My groupmates and I decided on our topic and color scheme quickly, the harder part of the immediate design was choosing a name although that was quickly resolved on the second day having chosen “Echo Tradez”. We felt accomplished as the foundation was finally set, although we celebrated there was still much to be done. Swiftly after the basis was accomplished we began identifying what pages would be necessary to the website. We ended up deciding that eight pages needed to be completed in total. We decided to split it evenly each of the four group members would choose which two pages they wanted to complete on a first come first serve basis. This seemed to work for everyone and we were soon beginning the actual creation process. The code was tedious and frustrating at times but those difficulties made the results all the more rewarding. Over a week and a half, I managed to complete my two pages just before the final week. This was both a monumental accomplishment and a feeling for me as completing my portion of the work ahead of time allowed me to attend a four-day school trip that I had been looking forward to. I had faith that my teammates would complete the work before I returned. Then followed the four day absence. Once I returned only three days remained until our presentation. I checked in with my teammates to see how much of the work had been completed; hearing their response shocked me. Over the time I was gone, they had only completed one page meaning that we had three days to complete another five pages. I quickly got to work managing to finish three pages that Friday. Luckily another person was working their hardest along with me who managed to complete the remaining two pages that weekend. We cut it close but our project was completed and ready to present."

Knowing this this portion was the bulk of the essay I felt incredibly complete. I was accomplished knowing that I was successfully able to write a relatively well written personal statement before the deadline. I was ready to share with my guidance councelor to work on any nescessary edits. I emailed it and the next day in school i was willing to work on the edits. Prepared to hear and work on nescessary feeback I stood before my guidance councelor.

She looked at me and told me "You're application isn't due until December 30th. There was no need for you to rush."Immediately I was filled with frustration realizing that I had no reason to stress or worry.

Although I was frustrated I realized that this was for the best. I no longer proscrastinated on writing my personal statement. Overall I was able to completete what was needed in a timely fashon well before the deadline.